Dlala Mapantsula Reflection entertaining the guests and media at the media launchAs one of this country’s most memorable events on the annual entertainment calendar, the expo returns this April with an exhilarating offering sure to please the whole family. Running from 6 to 10 April 2023, SA’s largest consumer exhibition will take place at The Johannesburg Expo Centre, Nasrec.Let’s get specific!Huge crowd pleasers and outdoor funThe Rand Show is famous for its outdoor displays, and this year is no different. Visitors can experience helicopter flips, drifting and advanced driving with professionals.A new addition to this year’s event is the Dog Showcase – backed by The South African Dog Agility Association (SADAA). Dog agility is one of the fastest growing canine sports globally and is a fantastic spectator sport. This promises to big a massive crowd pleaser for visitors. Visitors can expect to see dogs and their handlers participating in four disciplines – flying, agility, jumping, and IPO (training, obedience, and protection). This is sure to wow the crowds.All day entertainmentWhile some may not consider food and drink as entertainment, at this event, it is. From the beer gardens to gin tastings and speciality snacks and food, there is an excellent excuse to break your diet.The kids will love the dedicated Kids Zone, Kids Con, magic shows, SpongeBob SquarePants, Dora the Explorer, the brand new Easter Wonderland with the Beacon Bunny, the inflatables village, animal farm, kids marching band, balloon giveaways, go-karting, Hamley’s trains and so much more.Young adults can look forward to free music concerts around the show at no extra cost. Some top SA musicians will be performing, including the likes of  Dr Victor, Mango Groove, Uncle Waffles, Kelly Khumalo and MXO.Families will enjoy the Classic Car Show, wrestling, the Dog Show, Cake Boss, motorbike display and toy run and the various marching bands performing throughout the show.Mr Keys entertaining the media and guests at the Rand Show media launchDidi Okoro sharing exciting news about the upcoming Rand Show at the media launchLocal is lekkerAn incredible addition this year is an initiative to practically uplift and support SMMEs. Hall 7 will be dedicated to small businesses, and visitors can vote for their favourite stands via the Rand Show app. The winner will get R 50,000 cash to grow their business.Explore the hundreds of exciting wares on display in the SMME village.Just a few great reasons to get to the Rand Show this Easter.The Rand Show is delighted to have the following sponsors on board for the SMME Summit and for the expo: National Regulator of Compulsory Specifications, Gauteng Department of Economic Development, The Innovation Hub, Joburg Tourism, and SAB. Partners include Hollywood Bet, GEMs, Lesotho Highlands Water Project, MTN, ABSA, OROS, Tastic, Nickelodeon, Waltons, Beacon, Supabets, and 947.Date: 6 – 10 April 2022Time: 9am – 7pmVenue: Johannesburg Expo Centre, NasrecAddress: Corner of Nasrec and Randshow Roads, Johannesburg, 2091Ticket pricesAdults: R95Children 3 to 12: R60Pensioners: R60Family passes: 2 adults and 2 kids (kids aged 3 – 12. Kids under 3 are free) R295. Family package is available online only, visit therandshow.howler.co.za to book.Tickets: therandshow.howler.co.zaWebsite: https://randshow.co.za/To exhibit or participate in any way at the 2023 event, please contact Didi Okoro at az.oc.wohsdnar@idid.