Image credit: Naresh MaharajImage credit: Naresh MaharajImage credit: Naresh MaharajIt’s a pleasing blend of hatchback space with SUV practicality. Looks mighty impressive in a somewhat aggressive stance. But what about the drive? At launch, I drove the Qashqai from Camp’s Bay up onto one of the most scenic drives in the world, Chapman’s Peak. It was just as a good route to really put the Qashqai through its paces.Locally, in KZN, it was another pleasing ride, as I drove on the N3 to the scenic Midlands. You feel the quality and the urge to drive the Qashqai through the twisty and winding Valley of a Thousand Hills. Hailed as one of the pioneers of the crossover segment, the Qashqai has always been an industry benchmark and the third generation’s introduction, with its fresh, modern and sporty style, has retained the model’s identity, signalling a positive for the design consistency of Nissan’s crossover range.Sleek lines mean a more muscular and sharper exterior design, the all-new Qashqai features a bigger V-Motion front grille, as well as slim LED matrix headlamps with new daylight running lights that further enhance its stance and presence.New benchmarks in safetyThe new Qashqai combines a sporty design with an all-around overall premium packaging that does not compromise on performance, style, and function. It also offers new benchmarks in comfort, safety and driving dynamics coupled with the latest Nissan Intelligent Mobility (Nim) technology whilst boasting a redefined and powerful 1.3T engine, mated to a refined Xtronic Automated transmission.




South Africans will be able to drive at ease, knowing that safety is at the heart of the third-generation Qashqai.It is equipped with advanced safety technologies designed to watch the road, keeping all passengers safe and providing peace of mind. One of the safety functions ensuring passenger safety is through the onboard Predictive Front Collision Warning, which keeps an eye up to two vehicles ahead, and when the system detects a sudden deceleration ahead, it gives the driver an audible and visual warning to slow down.The new Nissan Qashqai harnesses the use of a full suite of technologies to help the driver avoid unintentional lane departure through its Lane Keeping Aid (LKA), keeping the driver centred in the lane using either a steering wheel action or breaking in an emergency.Comfort, premium, and classElegance and comfort add to the allure of the all-new Nissan Qashqai, fitted with premium full Napa leather seats with quilted fronts for a relaxing, comfortable, and enjoyable seating experience. It is engineered with the ultimate purpose, function, and quality in mind.The NissanConnect suite of features has also undergone an evolution and now offers a more connected service with the latest and greatest in audio technology, connectivity, and mobile integration. To further set it apart, the new Qashqai offers two-tone exterior metallic paint that showcases the crisp line profiles of the vehicle.Taken a step further, Nissan is also introducing a two-tone, premium interior to complete the overall premium experience of the third-generation Qashqai.Leading featuresThe all-new Nissan Qashqai boasts class-leading features, including Nissan’s award-winning Autonomous Driving Level 1 (Nissan ProPILOT), Predictive Front Collision Warning and Lane Keep Assist – to name a few. Customers are spoiled for choice with the new model available in three grades; the Qashqai 1.3T Visia MT, the Qashqai 1.3T Acenta (Xtronic) and the 1.3T Acenta Plus (Xtronic).The all-new Qashqai also delivers on an intuitive and protective driving experience through the Driver Attention Alert (DAA) system – which is intended to address potential driver fatigue and inattention. If the system detects driving behaviour consistent with a drowsy driver, the system uses an audible chime sound and displays an amber coffee cup with a message reading, “Take a break?” in the vehicle’s information display.ProPilot Driver assistanceThe new Nissan Qashqai is equipped with the revolutionary ProPilot autonomous drive technology, designed for highway use in single-lane traffic. It introduces a combination of steering, acceleration and braking that can be operated in full-automatic mode, easing driver workload in heavy highway traffic and long commutes. Using advanced image-processing technology, the ProPILOT system understands road and traffic situations and executes precise steering, enabling the vehicle to perform naturally.VerdictAn all-round SUV that is good for the weekday. Throw in all your sporting equipment and it’s good for the weekend too. Aesthetically, very pleasing to the eye with new contoured lines. The interior is roomy, practical and very quiet. The ride is smooth and pleasing thanks to the improved multi-link suspension, for sportier and agile driving.PricingQashqai Visia R568,200Qashqai Acenta R639,300Qashqai Acenta Plus R670,600