Deltek, the leading global provider of software and solutions for project-based businesses, today announced the winners of its annual Global Partner of the Year Awards. This year’s awards recognize the significant accomplishments of outstanding companies in the Deltek Partner Network. They represent the best of the vibrant global ecosystem of systems integrators (SIs), value-added resellers (VARs), independent software vendors (ISVs), accounting firms and consulting firms.Deltek’s partner programs provide flexibility for companies to resell, co-sell, refer, implement and consult – all supported by Deltek's commitment to make each partnership a success. Partners amplify enterprise software offerings for project-based businesses and expand the Deltek customer base around the world.This year, newly created award categories were added to recognize partners that are successful in focusing on new industries and new customers – the Net-New Customers Award – as well as those partners that exhibit excellent potential – with the Rising Star Awards. Deltek recognized a total of 11 partners in the following categories:Global Partner of the Year – Infotek Consulting, headquartered in Herndon, VAGovCon Partner of the Year – Premier Consulting & Integration (PCI), headquartered in Red Bank, NJNorth American Reseller Partner of the Year – Aktion Associations, Inc., headquartered in Maumee, OHSystems Integrator Partner of the Year – Baker Tilly, headquartered in Chicago, ILNet-New Customers Partner of the Year – Full Sail Partners, located in Steamboat Springs, COPartner of the Year (Rest of World) – Silversoft, located in Johannesburg, South Africa and London, UKAlliance Partner of the Year – NetQuarry, Inc., headquartered in Fullerton, CACustomer Satisfaction Partner of the Year – SilverEdge, headquartered in Schaumburg, ILRising Star Partner of the Year (Americas) – Rhodium Digital, located in Calgary, Alberta, CanadaRising Star Partner of the Year (Rest of World) – Crunchtech Solutions, headquartered in Dubai, United Arab Emirates Marketplace Partner of the Year – Infintech, headquartered in Blue Ash, OH“Congratulations to all our award-winning partners on a successful year! It is an honor to recognize the outstanding achievements and innovation of these partners,” said Mike Hines, Vice President of the Global Partner Alliance at Deltek. “It’s an exciting time to be part of the Deltek ecosystem – we have a lot in store for partners in 2023, including new programs and new routes to market. Thanks to the Deltek Project Nation community and the ever-growing expansion of our partner community, 2023 promises to be a successful year for all.”To learn more about Deltek’s global partner ecosystem and the benefits of the program, visit https://www.deltek.com/en/partners.About DeltekBetter software means better projects. Deltek is the leading global provider of enterprise software and information solutions for project-based businesses. More than 30,000 organizations and millions of users in over 80 countries around the world rely on Deltek for superior levels of project intelligence, management, and collaboration. Our industry-focused expertise powers project success by helping firms achieve performance that maximizes productivity and revenue. www.deltek.com